README.md, before:

# Java client library for OpenAI API

This is an unofficial Java client library that helps to connect your Java applications with OpenAI API.

## Current capabilities:

- [Completions](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/completions)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously)
    - [streaming](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#streaming)
- [Chat Completions](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-1)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-1)
    - [streaming](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#streaming-1)
- [Embeddings](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-2)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-2)
- [Moderations](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/moderations)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-3)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-3)
- [Functions](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j/blob/main/src/test/java/dev/ai4j/openai4j/chat/ChatCompletionTest.java)

## Coming soon:

- Detailed javadocs
- The rest of API endpoints
- [Tell us what you need](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j/issues/new)

# Start using

Maven:

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>dev.ai4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>openai4j</artifactId>
    <version>0.12.4</version>
</dependency>
```

Gradle:

```
implementation 'dev.ai4j:openai4j:0.12.4'
```

# Code examples

## Create an OpenAI Client

Simple way:

```
String apiKey = System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY");

OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient.builder()
    .openAiApiKey(apiKey)
    .build();
```

Customizable way:

```
String apiKey = System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY");

OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient.builder()
	.baseUrl(baseUrl)
	.openAiApiKey(apiKey)
	.organizationId(orgId)
	.callTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.connectTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.readTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.writeTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.proxy(HTTP, "XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX", 8080)
	.logRequests()
	.logResponses()
	// other customizations coming soon!
	.build();
```

## Completions

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
String completion = client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

CompletionResponse response = client.completion(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.completion(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

### Streaming

Simple way:

```
client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.completion(request)
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Chat Completions

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
String completion = client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

ChatCompletionResponse response = client.chatCompletions(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.chatCompletion(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

### Streaming

Simple way:

```
client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.chatCompletion(request)
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Embeddings

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
List<Float> embedding = client.embedding("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
EmbeddingRequest request = EmbeddingRequest.builder()
	.model(TEXT_EMBEDDING_ADA_002)
	.input("Write a poem about ChatGPT", "Write a haiku about ChatGPT")
	...
	.build();

EmbeddingResponse embedding = client.embedding(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.embedding("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
EmbeddingRequest request = EmbeddingRequest.builder()
	.model(TEXT_EMBEDDING_ADA_002)
	.input("Write a poem about ChatGPT", "Write a haiku about ChatGPT")
	...
	.build();

client.embedding(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Moderations

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
ModerationResult moderationResult = client.moderation("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ModerationRequest request = ModerationRequest.builder()
	.input(INPUT)
	.model(TEXT_MODERATION_STABLE)
	.build();

ModerationResponse response = client.moderation(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.moderation("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ModerationRequest request = ModerationRequest.builder()
	.input(INPUT)
	.model(TEXT_MODERATION_STABLE)
	.build();

client.moderation(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Images Generations with DALL·E

Simple way:

```
    OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient
      .builder()
      .openAiApiKey(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
      .build();

    ImageRequest request = ImageRequest
      .builder()
      .prompt("Beautiful house on country side")
      .build();

    ImageResponse response = client.imagesGenerations(request).execute();

    // remote image generated with model DALL·E 3 and resolution 1024x1024
    String remoteImage = response.data().get(0).url();
```

Customizable way:

```
    OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient
      .builder()
      .openAiApiKey(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
      .logRequests()
      .logResponses()
      .withPersisting()
      .build();

    ImageRequest request = ImageRequest
      .builder()
      .model(DALL_E_3)
      .size(DALL_E_SIZE_1792_x_1024)
      .quality(DALL_E_QUALITY_HD)
      .responseFormat(DALL_E_RESPONSE_FORMAT_B64_JSON) // if you like to get the image within the response body
      .prompt("Cute red parrot flying in the sky")
      .build();

    ImageResponse response = client.imagesGenerations(request).execute();

    // your generated image is here locally: 
    String localImage = response.data().get(0).url();
```

# Useful materials

- How to get best results form AI: https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/chatgpt-prompt-engineering-for-developers/
- Text version of above course: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt-best-practices
- How to build software powered by
  OpenAI/ChatGPT: https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/building-systems-with-chatgpt/
- Cookbook with examples of how to use OpenAI API: https://github.com/openai/openai-cookbook
- ChatGPT DALL-E 3: Complete Guide (Generate Images with Text) https://www.akkio.com/post/chatgpt-dall-e-3

Commit message:

Ability to switch off making live calls

README.md, after:

# Java client library for OpenAI API

This is an unofficial Java client library that helps to connect your Java applications with OpenAI API.

## Current capabilities:

- [Completions](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/completions)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously)
    - [streaming](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#streaming)
- [Chat Completions](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-1)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-1)
    - [streaming](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#streaming-1)
- [Embeddings](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-2)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-2)
- [Moderations](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/moderations)
    - [synchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#synchronously-3)
    - [asynchronous](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j#asynchronously-3)
- [Functions](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j/blob/main/src/test/java/dev/ai4j/openai4j/chat/ChatCompletionTest.java)

## Coming soon:

- Detailed javadocs
- The rest of API endpoints
- [Tell us what you need](https://github.com/ai-for-java/openai4j/issues/new)

# Start using

Maven:

```
<dependency>
    <groupId>dev.ai4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>openai4j</artifactId>
    <version>0.12.4</version>
</dependency>
```

Gradle:

```
implementation 'dev.ai4j:openai4j:0.12.4'
```

# Code examples

## Create an OpenAI Client

Simple way:

```
String apiKey = System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY");

OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient.builder()
    .openAiApiKey(apiKey)
    .build();
```

Customizable way:

```
String apiKey = System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY");

OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient.builder()
	.baseUrl(baseUrl)
	.openAiApiKey(apiKey)
	.organizationId(orgId)
	.callTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.connectTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.readTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.writeTimeout(ofSeconds(60))
	.proxy(HTTP, "XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX", 8080)
	.logRequests()
	.logResponses()
	// other customizations coming soon!
	.build();
```

## Disabling a client from making live calls

There may be instances where you want to disable the client from making "real" live calls as these calls can cost money. You can configure the builder using

```java
OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient.builder()
    .disableRequests()
    // Other customizations
    .build();
```

For synchronous operations this will cause the `execute()` method to throw an `OpenAiHttpException`.

For asynchronous/streaming operations this will cause the `execute()` method to call the `onError` callback with an `OpenAiHttpException`.

## Completions

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
String completion = client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

CompletionResponse response = client.completion(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.completion(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

### Streaming

Simple way:

```
client.completion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
CompletionRequest request = CompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO_INSTRUCT)
	.prompt("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.completion(request)
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Chat Completions

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
String completion = client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

ChatCompletionResponse response = client.chatCompletions(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.chatCompletion(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

### Streaming

Simple way:

```
client.chatCompletion("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ChatCompletionRequest request = ChatCompletionRequest.builder()
	.model(GPT_3_5_TURBO)
	.addSystemMessage("You are a helpful assistant")
	.addUserMessage("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.temperature(0.9)
	...
	.build();

client.chatCompletion(request)
	.onPartialResponse(partialResponse -> ...)
	.onComplete(() -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Embeddings

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
List<Float> embedding = client.embedding("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
EmbeddingRequest request = EmbeddingRequest.builder()
	.model(TEXT_EMBEDDING_ADA_002)
	.input("Write a poem about ChatGPT", "Write a haiku about ChatGPT")
	...
	.build();

EmbeddingResponse embedding = client.embedding(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.embedding("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
EmbeddingRequest request = EmbeddingRequest.builder()
	.model(TEXT_EMBEDDING_ADA_002)
	.input("Write a poem about ChatGPT", "Write a haiku about ChatGPT")
	...
	.build();

client.embedding(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Moderations

### Synchronously

Simple way:

```
ModerationResult moderationResult = client.moderation("Write a poem about ChatGPT").execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ModerationRequest request = ModerationRequest.builder()
	.input(INPUT)
	.model(TEXT_MODERATION_STABLE)
	.build();

ModerationResponse response = client.moderation(request).execute();
```

### Asynchronously

Simple way:

```
client.moderation("Write a poem about ChatGPT")
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

Customizable way:

```
ModerationRequest request = ModerationRequest.builder()
	.input(INPUT)
	.model(TEXT_MODERATION_STABLE)
	.build();

client.moderation(request)
	.onResponse(response -> ...)
	.onError(error -> ...)
	.execute();
```

## Images Generations with DALL·E

Simple way:

```
    OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient
      .builder()
      .openAiApiKey(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
      .build();

    ImageRequest request = ImageRequest
      .builder()
      .prompt("Beautiful house on country side")
      .build();

    ImageResponse response = client.imagesGenerations(request).execute();

    // remote image generated with model DALL·E 3 and resolution 1024x1024
    String remoteImage = response.data().get(0).url();
```

Customizable way:

```
    OpenAiClient client = OpenAiClient
      .builder()
      .openAiApiKey(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))
      .logRequests()
      .logResponses()
      .withPersisting()
      .build();

    ImageRequest request = ImageRequest
      .builder()
      .model(DALL_E_3)
      .size(DALL_E_SIZE_1792_x_1024)
      .quality(DALL_E_QUALITY_HD)
      .responseFormat(DALL_E_RESPONSE_FORMAT_B64_JSON) // if you like to get the image within the response body
      .prompt("Cute red parrot flying in the sky")
      .build();

    ImageResponse response = client.imagesGenerations(request).execute();

    // your generated image is here locally: 
    String localImage = response.data().get(0).url();
```

# Useful materials

- How to get best results form AI: https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/chatgpt-prompt-engineering-for-developers/
- Text version of above course: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt-best-practices
- How to build software powered by
  OpenAI/ChatGPT: https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/building-systems-with-chatgpt/
- Cookbook with examples of how to use OpenAI API: https://github.com/openai/openai-cookbook
- ChatGPT DALL-E 3: Complete Guide (Generate Images with Text) https://www.akkio.com/post/chatgpt-dall-e-3
